When building a full-stack web application, I decided on a hybrid of Express, HTML, JavaScript, and a single-page application (SPA) structure to fulfill both the needs of customers and administrators. For the client-side presentation, Express HTML allowed for simple, static layouts to be created quickly. JavaScript provided the interactivity along with client-centric logic. The SPA approach really began to offer a better user experience as it became easier to reduce page reloads, making it faster to simply run through the content that needed to be updated. On the server-side, I used a NoSQL MongoDB database, since it provided flexibility to easily handle unstructured data workloads that would be scaled. Additionally,  MongoDB can store all of its documents in a manner that resembles the way JavaScript works, making it easy for a front-end web application to communicate with the back-end and vice versa. JSON served as a common data format connecting the layers of the application, making consistent data transfers possible between the client and the server. Even though JSON is not JavaScript per se, its data storage format built the bridge for Zhang's frameworks to work together through a common language. During the development phases, I took opportunities to optimize the code by refactoring. I was able to take sections of code that performed (similar) repetitive logic, then break them into reusable UI Components, which eliminated repetitions and improved the efficiency of the application! I also believe it makes the application easier to maintain, which provides consistency and improved user experience within the application across different pages and features.

Testing was pivotal during each phase of the project, but particularly to ensure that my methods and endpoints operated correctly to retrieve (GET) and submit (POST) data. Authentication and security with respect to user credentials would add further complexity because login endpoints required validations and protection so administrators cannot access them. This step will help me understand secure session handling, appropriate error handling, and protecting any routes. To summarize, I can see how completing this project helped improve my practical knowledge about integrating systems between the frontend, the backend, and the database. While also upholding industry standards for security and testing. Overall reflection on the course, I feel that I have improved my abilities to full stack development, database management, and using best practices for modular coding which will make me more marketable to potential clients as a software developer. These projects have also built my confidence in my own technical abilities, but also gave me experience producing portfolio worthy work that shows I have the capability to produce complete, secure, and professional applications.
